# Choreless by HomeDivision
## Problem Statement
Chores are a never ending task in home life and are often overlooked when living with others. This can lead to frustration between housemates due to an untidy living space. Working with housemates about who is responsible for each chore can be difficult, and may result in uncompleted chores. Some of such difficulties include: coordinating and distributing chores between housemates, recalling which chores each housemate must complete every day, and incentivizing housemates to complete undesirable or tedious chores. 

Current systems like physical chore charts or permanent chore assignments do not provide options for automatically reminding housemates about their chores. There is also the fundamental problem in initiating a chore system to begin with. We interviewed five college students who lived in dormitories and apartment complexes, and found that all of them do not currently have a system in place for coordinating chores with roommates. A primary factor for the lack of a system was the tedious workload to start a system, therefore causing it to be postponed indefinitely. One of our interviewees also stated that it felt awkward starting a system after living with their roommates for a few months, especially if they are on a short lease. Finally, a common trend among our interviewees was that the task of having to confront roommates who did not complete their assigned chores was so uncomfortable that they would often end up doing that roommate’s chore for them.

Our goal is to develop a platform that will support cooperation between housemates to make completing chores easier. A digital system allows for the collection of data on chore completion and the recognition of trends within households and roommates. First, the platform will be designed to ensure that the work effort for a household to set up and maintain their chore system will be minimal. Second, we aim to provide users the ability to be notified about upcoming chores in order to increase personal accountability in the hopes that all members of a household are accomplishing their chores on time. Finally, we will incentives users to complete chores by implementing a weekly goal system. 